[WIP] Blog Post: Duolingo testing lessons (#9423)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/duolingo-testing-lessons.md

---
title: What can we learn from how Duolingo uses A/B tests?
date: 2024-09-24
author:
  - bijan-boustani
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/experiment-hog.jpg
featuredImageType: full
tags:
  - Experiments
  - Product engineers
crosspost:
  - Blog
---

> Duolingo has grown rapidly over the past few years, with a market cap recently exceeding $10B. ["Test everything"](https://blog.duolingo.com/improving-duolingo-one-experiment-at-a-time/) is one of their core principles, and they credit **A/B testing** as _the_ source of the company's success. [source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9KqrnBiyBQ8)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Duolingo has grown rapidly over the past few years, with a market cap recently exceeding $10B. ["Test everything"](https://blog.duolingo.com/improving-duolingo-one-experiment-at-a-time/) is one of their core principles, and it credits **A/B testing** as _the_ source of the company's success. [source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9KqrnBiyBQ8)
```

Companies are singular

In this article, we'll try to extract a few lessons from Duolingo's experimentation process.

- reframe the way we think about our product, focusing on tiny details to continually improve quality
- build a massive audience by offering a generous free tier
- improve onboarding, retention, and user engagement

> - align the goals of our users with the goals of our company

Reviewer: I still think this intro is lacking a little... edge? This is a hard thing to articulate, but have a read through some recent newsletters we've done for inspo. Some good examples:

- https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/how-not-to-be-boring
- https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/how-to-get-a-job-at-a-startup
- https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/hiring-and-managing-cracked-engineers

Don't feel like you need to copy these, but I hope they convey the vibe we want to find.

Author: Totally agree. I see what you mean about those other posts having an edge and authenticity. I tried adding a handful of changes here, but I'm open to some more drastic updates as well:
https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/9423/commits/373ac0e1de8a743b61cfc934fc2966901fd14f90

Reviewer 2: And the article in Italian.

Reviewer 2: And the CTA in Chinese.

When it comes to product engagement, there is a fine line between:

- spamming people with reminders to get them to keep using your product
- encouraging using your product because it's genuinely helping them achieve a goal

A/B testing streak reminders provides a great example of aligning these goals. They tinkered with the copy, the timing, the frequency, and personalization of these reminders to get them just right. If you think about it, it doesn't make sense to get a streak reminder while you're asleep. And users probably have different times of the day when they are able to allocate time for study. Running experiments allowed them to find compounding improvements for personalized copy at just the right time of day.

## 🏁 Conclusion

Here are a few key takeaways to think about when building your product:

- Think of your product as a game where you can run A/B tests to constantly tweak details.
- Add a generous free tier to encourage more people to try your product
- Use tests to decrease friction in the onboarding experience

> - Balance engagement intentionally by aligning with user goals

Reviewer: This conclusion falls a little flat for me – I have no idea "Balance engagement intentionally by aligning with user goals" really means. 

Rather than repeating the points, could you get a bit more explicit and come up with something like "Ideas you can try" and come up with some hypothetical examples that embody the lessons. One or two may be enough, it just needs a tiny bit more meat to make it feel satisfying.

Author: Agreed. I replaced the conclusion section with a short list of actionable ideas:
https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/9423/commits/5a3ae093e0d60df2ba0670a5e851886768c4df64
